What the problem is
-------------------

At our school district, we have lots of iBook G4 machines running OS X 
10.4.  We use Workgroup Manager to manage mobile users and workgroups
on these laptops. At some point in the 10.4 or 10.5 server upgrade
releases, Apple introduced a bug that intermittently causes multiple
mobile accounts with the same username to be created in NetInfo on 
these machines during the normal login process.

I have watched the NetInfo progress via ssh on a machine when a mobile
user logs in.  Apparently, the login process makes copies of the accounts
(from the server) to the client, then deletes some of the accounts.  Each
mobile user record in NetInfo has a "copy_timestamp" attribute that can
reveal a little about this process.

If the login process goes awry (from timing or network connectivity problems?)
the result is multiple mobile account records on the client machine.  Once
this occurs, a number of problems result for the end user:

1. He may be able to log in, but instead of seeing his mobile Destkop,
he will see a home icon displayed for the Macintosh HD on the Desktop, and
will not have access to his files.  This is because the NetInfo record
used for the login has been corrupted.  It has no "home" attribute.

Or

2. He may get "shaken off" and not be able to log in at all.

What the installer does
-----------------------
The installer copies two files to the target machine (which must be running
OS X 10.4 or earlier--NetInfo as such does not exist in 10.5 and later).

The first file is a python script, "acctcheck.py" which is installed to 
/Users/Shared.  The python script uses the "nicl" command line interface
to NetInfo to detect and clean up the multiple mobile account problems.

The second file is a launch daemon that runs the acctcheck.py 
script on start up.  It is installed to /Library/LaunchDaemons and is
named org.kentfieldschools.mobilefix.plist.

This software is free for your use.  
Copyright 2009 Kentfield School District.
Original author: Peter Zingg, pzingg@kentfieldschools.org
